The name of our project is Superior Sports Stats. We have created a website in which we applied Professor Glickman’s analytical model for evaluating chess players (GLICKO) to the college basketball. Our program loads each basketball game played up to this point in the season into a database entitled “records” and uses the scores of each game in the GLICKO model to evaluate all 353 men’s college basketball teams and assigns each one rating according to their results and a confidence rating (RD) in that rating, with a lower RD representing higher confidence. As more games are played, the amount of data increases, and thus the confidence rating of each team decreases, because GLICKO is more confident in the accuracy of its assigned ratings.

To use our project, one must enter “flask run” in a CS50 IDE Terminal window within workspace/project/implementation. The terminal will return a URL that houses our project, and clicking that link will lead the the homepage of our website. From any page of our website, one can navigate to any of our four paths. The first is our homepage, which details the background of GLICKO and its application to college basketball. The second page, entitled “About GLICKO” links to an in-depth explanation of the GLICKO model for anyone that is curious about its methodology. “Rankings” leads to a list of each college basketball team in descending order of GLICKO rating. Each row consists of a team’s ranking as compared to their competitors, their team name, and their quantitative GLICKO rating, with higher ratings corresponding to better teams.

The final path of our website is entitled “Head-to-Head.” In Head-To-Head, the user is presented with two text boxes in which they can enter any two of the 353 Division 1 college basketball teams of their choosing. Once the user enters their two teams (case-insensitive), our website will return the odds each teams has of winning a hypothetical game played between the two. We have also included a popular abbreviation for each team, so the user can enter the name of any team or its popular abbreviation.

We have uploaded all of the season’s games through Wednesday, December 6 and our website will continue to update with the previous night’s games daily at 6:00 AM.
